VAPI_TIMEZONE_GUIDE.md, before:

# VAPI Booking with Timezone Support

## Overview
The booking MCP now supports automatic timezone conversion. The system will:
1. Accept booking times in the **customer's timezone**
2. Automatically convert to the **business/agent's timezone**
3. Book the appointment in the correct time

## How It Works

### Customer Flow
1. Customer says: "Book me for 2pm tomorrow"
2. AI asks: "What timezone are you in?" or "Are you in Eastern time?"
3. Customer responds: "Eastern" or "EST" or "America/New_York"
4. System converts customer's 2pm → business timezone → books appointment

### Example Conversions
```
Customer (EST): 2:00 PM → Business (AEST): 5:00 AM next day
Customer (PST): 10:00 AM → Business (AEST): 3:00 AM next day
Customer (Local): 3:00 PM → Business (Same): 3:00 PM
```

## VAPI Prompt Addition

Add this to your VAPI agent prompt:

```
### Booking Appointments

When booking appointments:

1. **Get Date & Time**: Ask customer for their preferred date and time
2. **Get Timezone**: ALWAYS ask for their timezone
   - Example: "What timezone are you in?"
   - Accept formats like: "Eastern", "EST", "America/New_York", "Pacific", "AEST", "Sydney"
3. **Confirm Details**: Repeat back the appointment details
4. **Book**: Use CreateCalendarEvent tool with customerTimezone parameter

Example dialogue:
- AI: "I'd be happy to schedule that for you. What date and time works best?"
- Customer: "Tomorrow at 2pm"
- AI: "Perfect! What timezone are you in?"
- Customer: "Eastern time"
- AI: "Great! I'm booking you for tomorrow at 2pm Eastern Time. That will be [converted time] in our timezone."

Required parameters for booking:
- clientId: {your_client_id}
- agentId: {agent_id}
- subject: Brief description of meeting
- startDateTime: "2025-10-21T14:00:00" (in ISO format)
- endDateTime: "2025-10-21T15:00:00" (in ISO format)
- customerTimezone: "America/New_York" (or "EST", "Eastern", etc.)
- contactName: Customer's name
- contactEmail: Customer's email (if available)
- isOnlineMeeting: true (for Teams link)
```

## Supported Timezone Formats

The system recognizes these timezone formats:

### US Timezones
- `EST`, `EDT`, `Eastern`, `America/New_York`
- `CST`, `CDT`, `Central`, `America/Chicago`
- `MST`, `MDT`, `Mountain`, `America/Denver`
- `PST`, `PDT`, `Pacific`, `America/Los_Angeles`

### Australian Timezones
- `AEST`, `AEDT`, `Sydney`, `Australia/Sydney`
- `Melbourne`, `Australia/Melbourne`
- `Brisbane`, `Australia/Brisbane`
- `Perth`, `AWST`, `Australia/Perth`
- `Adelaide`, `ACST`, `Australia/Adelaide`

### UK/Europe
- `GMT`, `BST`, `London`, `Europe/London`
- `CET`, `CEST`, `Paris`, `Europe/Paris`
- `Berlin`, `Europe/Berlin`

### Asia
- `JST`, `Tokyo`, `Asia/Tokyo`
- `Singapore`, `Asia/Singapore`
- `Hong Kong`, `Asia/Hong_Kong`
- `Shanghai`, `Asia/Shanghai`

## MCP Tool Parameters

### CreateCalendarEvent (Updated)

```typescript
{
  clientId: number,              // Required: Your client ID
  agentId: number,               // Required: Agent's ID
  subject: string,               // Required: Meeting title
  startDateTime: string,         // Required: ISO format
  endDateTime: string,           // Required: ISO format
  customerTimezone?: string,     // Optional: Customer's timezone (NEW!)
  contactName?: string,          // Optional: Contact name
  contactEmail?: string,         // Optional: Contact email
  contactPhone?: string,         // Optional: Contact phone
  description?: string,          // Optional: Meeting description
  location?: string,             // Optional: Physical location
  isOnlineMeeting?: boolean,     // Optional: Create Teams link (default: true)
  calendarId?: string           // Optional: Specific calendar
}
```

## Behavior

### If customerTimezone is provided:
✅ Times are converted from customer timezone → business timezone
✅ Validation happens in business timezone
✅ Calendar event is created in business timezone
✅ Logs show conversion details for debugging

### If customerTimezone is NOT provided:
⚠️ Times are assumed to be in business timezone already
✅ No conversion happens
✅ Works as before (backward compatible)

## Example Logs

When timezone conversion happens:
```
🌍 Converting time from customer timezone (America/New_York) to business timezone (Australia/Melbourne)
   Customer time: 2025-10-21T14:00:00 - 2025-10-21T15:00:00
   Business time: 2025-10-22T05:00:00 - 2025-10-22T06:00:00
   📅 Tue, Oct 22, 2025, 05:00 AM (customer) = Tue, Oct 22, 2025, 05:00 AM (business)
```

## Error Handling

Invalid timezone error message:
```json
{
  "success": false,
  "error": "Invalid timezone: \"Eastern Standard\". Please provide a valid timezone like \"America/New_York\", \"EST\", or \"Eastern\"."
}
```

## Tips for VAPI Configuration

1. **Make timezone question natural**: 
   - ✅ "What timezone are you in?"
   - ✅ "Are you on Eastern or Pacific time?"
   - ❌ Don't say "Please provide IANA timezone identifier"

2. **Accept flexible formats**:
   - System handles "Eastern", "EST", "America/New_York" automatically
   - No need to be strict with customers

3. **Confirm both times**:
   - Tell customer their local time
   - System handles the conversion

4. **Always collect timezone**:
   - Even if customer seems local, ask to be sure
   - Prevents scheduling errors

## Testing

Test with different timezones:
```bash
# Customer in New York booking with Australian business
customerTimezone: "America/New_York"
startDateTime: "2025-10-21T14:00:00"  # 2pm NY time
# → Converts to → "2025-10-22T05:00:00"  # 5am Melbourne time next day

# Customer in same timezone as business
customerTimezone: "Australia/Melbourne"
startDateTime: "2025-10-21T14:00:00"  # 2pm Melbourne time
# → No conversion → "2025-10-21T14:00:00"  # 2pm Melbourne time
```

## Backward Compatibility

✅ Existing integrations without `customerTimezone` parameter continue to work
✅ Times without timezone are treated as business timezone (existing behavior)
✅ No breaking changes to existing bookings

Commit message:

Instead of manual conversion let micrisift graph do it

VAPI_TIMEZONE_GUIDE.md, after:

# VAPI Booking with Timezone Support (Simplified)

## Overview
The booking MCP now supports timezone-aware scheduling. **Microsoft Graph API handles all timezone conversions automatically** via the `Prefer: outlook.timezone` header.

### Simple Flow:
1. Customer provides datetime in their timezone OR UTC
2. System passes it to Microsoft Graph with business timezone preference
3. Graph API handles all timezone math automatically
4. Appointment is created correctly

## How It Works

### Customer Flow
1. Customer says: "Book me for 2pm tomorrow"
2. AI asks: "What timezone are you in?" (optional for validation)
3. Customer responds: "Eastern" or "EST" or "America/New_York"
4. System passes datetime to Microsoft Graph API
5. Graph API interprets time and creates event in correct timezone

### Microsoft Graph Timezone Handling
- **`dateTime`**: ISO 8601 string (e.g., "2025-10-21T14:00:00")
- **`timeZone`**: IANA timezone identifier (e.g., "America/New_York")
- **`Prefer` header**: `outlook.timezone="Australia/Melbourne"` (business timezone)

Graph API automatically handles DST, timezone offsets, and conversions.

## VAPI Prompt Addition

Add this to your VAPI agent prompt:

```
### Booking Appointments

When booking appointments:

1. **Get Date & Time**: Ask customer for their preferred date and time
2. **Get Timezone**: ALWAYS ask for their timezone
   - Example: "What timezone are you in?"
   - Accept formats like: "Eastern", "EST", "America/New_York", "Pacific", "AEST", "Sydney"
3. **Confirm Details**: Repeat back the appointment details
4. **Book**: Use CreateCalendarEvent tool with customerTimezone parameter

Example dialogue:
- AI: "I'd be happy to schedule that for you. What date and time works best?"
- Customer: "Tomorrow at 2pm"
- AI: "Perfect! What timezone are you in?"
- Customer: "Eastern time"
- AI: "Great! I'm booking you for tomorrow at 2pm Eastern Time. That will be [converted time] in our timezone."

Required parameters for booking:
- clientId: {your_client_id}
- agentId: {agent_id}
- subject: Brief description of meeting
- startDateTime: "2025-10-21T14:00:00" (in ISO format)
- endDateTime: "2025-10-21T15:00:00" (in ISO format)
- customerTimezone: "America/New_York" (or "EST", "Eastern", etc.)
- contactName: Customer's name
- contactEmail: Customer's email (if available)
- isOnlineMeeting: true (for Teams link)
```

## Supported Timezone Formats

The system recognizes these timezone formats:

### US Timezones
- `EST`, `EDT`, `Eastern`, `America/New_York`
- `CST`, `CDT`, `Central`, `America/Chicago`
- `MST`, `MDT`, `Mountain`, `America/Denver`
- `PST`, `PDT`, `Pacific`, `America/Los_Angeles`

### Australian Timezones
- `AEST`, `AEDT`, `Sydney`, `Australia/Sydney`
- `Melbourne`, `Australia/Melbourne`
- `Brisbane`, `Australia/Brisbane`
- `Perth`, `AWST`, `Australia/Perth`
- `Adelaide`, `ACST`, `Australia/Adelaide`

### UK/Europe
- `GMT`, `BST`, `London`, `Europe/London`
- `CET`, `CEST`, `Paris`, `Europe/Paris`
- `Berlin`, `Europe/Berlin`

### Asia
- `JST`, `Tokyo`, `Asia/Tokyo`
- `Singapore`, `Asia/Singapore`
- `Hong Kong`, `Asia/Hong_Kong`
- `Shanghai`, `Asia/Shanghai`

## MCP Tool Parameters

### CreateCalendarEvent (Updated)

```typescript
{
  clientId: number,              // Required: Your client ID
  agentId: number,               // Required: Agent's ID
  subject: string,               // Required: Meeting title
  startDateTime: string,         // Required: ISO format
  endDateTime: string,           // Required: ISO format
  customerTimezone?: string,     // Optional: Customer's timezone (NEW!)
  contactName?: string,          // Optional: Contact name
  contactEmail?: string,         // Optional: Contact email
  contactPhone?: string,         // Optional: Contact phone
  description?: string,          // Optional: Meeting description
  location?: string,             // Optional: Physical location
  isOnlineMeeting?: boolean,     // Optional: Create Teams link (default: true)
  calendarId?: string           // Optional: Specific calendar
}
```

## Behavior

### If customerTimezone is provided:
✅ Timezone is validated (ensures valid IANA timezone)
✅ Datetime is passed as-is to Microsoft Graph API
✅ Graph API uses business timezone from `Prefer` header
✅ Graph handles all timezone conversion automatically
✅ Logs show timezone information for debugging

### If customerTimezone is NOT provided:
⚠️ Times are assumed to be in UTC or business timezone
✅ Graph API still handles timezone via Prefer header
✅ Backward compatible with existing integrations

## Example Logs

When timezone is provided:
```
🌍 Customer timezone: America/New_York, Business timezone: Australia/Melbourne
   Customer provided time: 2025-10-21T14:00:00 - 2025-10-21T15:00:00
   📌 Microsoft Graph will handle timezone conversion automatically via Prefer header
🌍 Setting timezone header: Australia/Melbourne → AUS Eastern Standard Time
```

## Error Handling

Invalid timezone error message:
```json
{
  "success": false,
  "error": "Invalid timezone: \"Eastern Standard\". Please provide a valid timezone like \"America/New_York\", \"EST\", or \"Eastern\"."
}
```

## Tips for VAPI Configuration

1. **Make timezone question natural**: 
   - ✅ "What timezone are you in?"
   - ✅ "Are you on Eastern or Pacific time?"
   - ❌ Don't say "Please provide IANA timezone identifier"

2. **Accept flexible formats**:
   - System handles "Eastern", "EST", "America/New_York" automatically
   - No need to be strict with customers

3. **Confirm both times**:
   - Tell customer their local time
   - System handles the conversion

4. **Always collect timezone**:
   - Even if customer seems local, ask to be sure
   - Prevents scheduling errors

## Testing

Test with different timezones:
```bash
# Customer in New York booking with Australian business
customerTimezone: "America/New_York"
startDateTime: "2025-10-21T14:00:00"  # 2pm NY time
# → Converts to → "2025-10-22T05:00:00"  # 5am Melbourne time next day

# Customer in same timezone as business
customerTimezone: "Australia/Melbourne"
startDateTime: "2025-10-21T14:00:00"  # 2pm Melbourne time
# → No conversion → "2025-10-21T14:00:00"  # 2pm Melbourne time
```

## Backward Compatibility

✅ Existing integrations without `customerTimezone` parameter continue to work
✅ Times without timezone are treated as business timezone (existing behavior)
✅ No breaking changes to existing bookings
